feat(curriculum): add d3 lessons (#64992)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/blocks/lecture-introduction-to-data-visualization/695b9093a0c45b36932dcbcb.md

---
id: 695b9093a0c45b36932dcbcb
title: What Is the D3 Library Used For?
challengeType: 19
dashedName: what-is-the-d3-library-used-for
---

# --description--

In the prior lessons, you were introduced to data visualization which is the process of creating clear, visual formats to represent complex data. In this lesson, you will learn about the D3 library.

The D3 library is a free and open source library you can use to create compelling and effective data visualizations in JavaScript.

<img src="https://cdn.freecodecamp.org/curriculum/lecture-transcripts/what-is-the-d3-library-used-for-1.png" alt="A graph with four nodes labeled A, B, C, and D. Node A connects to B, C, and D. Node B connects to A and D. Node C connects to A. Node D connects to A and B. It's the same image as before.">

> The name D3 is short for data-driven documents, referring to how it dynamically binds data to elements in the Document Object Model (DOM). This library is flexible and works naturally with the web. Instead of having to learn a whole new graphical representation, you can build data visualizations with `svg` and `canvas` elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The name D3 is an abbreviation for data-driven documents, referring to how it dynamically binds data to elements in the Document Object Model (DOM). This library is flexible and works naturally with the web. Instead of having to learn a whole new graphical representation, you can build data visualizations with `svg` and `canvas` elements.
```
